In the section we're going to be talking about the key word this the key word this is a bit tricky to
wrap your head around when learning intermedia javascript but it's the foundation for object oriented
programming.
In other trickier concepts like call apply and Byne which we'll cover in a later video to get started.
We're going to try to understand what the key word this is.
We're going to then analyze the four ways.
The key word this can be determined so that we always know what the value of the key word is.
Finally I'm going to try as hard as possible to not use the word this in a sentence.
Here we go.
So what is the key word this.
First off it is a reserved key word in javascript which means that we can not set it as the value of
a variable or importantly the value of the key word this is determined by how a function is called.
We usually call that the function's execution context.
In javascript every time that a function is run to special keywords are given to that function the arguments
keyword and the keyword this.
It's important to note that every time that a function is run a keyword this is defined for that function.
Another important thing to note about the keyword this is that if you can understand the four rules
for how the value of the keyword this can be determined the global rule object or implicit explicit
and new you will never have a problem with a keyword this.
So let's get started with the most broad rule of them all.
The global rule applies when you see the keyword this outside of a declared object.
What do I mean by a declared object.
What we mean here is that there has not been an object literal defined which contains a function which
uses the key word.
This you can also think of this as when the keyword this is in the wild when you see the keyword this
in the global context its value refers to the global object which in the browser is the window object.
In fact maybe you didn't know that every variable that you declare in the global scope is actually attached
to the window object.
Let's see what I mean by that.
I'm going to declare a variable called instructor and assign it to the string Elodie the instructor
variable is in the global scope and actually can be accessed through the window object.
This is where all of our global variables live in the browser.
In fact instructor is the same exact thing as a windowed instructor.
Now that we have an idea of what the window object is let's come back to the keyboard.
This on the first line we see the keyword this in the wild.
It is not inside of any object.
So what is its value.
You guessed it it's the window.
Simple enough when the keyword this is outside of an object and you don't see call apply or bind or
the new keyword its value is the global object.
So what have you learned so far.
The keyword this is a reserved keyword that can be determined using one of the four rules.
We saw a bit of the first rule which stated that when the keyword this is not inside of a declared object
its value is the global object in the next video.
We're going to see what happens when the keyword this is inside of a function.
See if there.